This is the base package of the GraphLCD project. It contains
 - GraphLCD driver library - libglcddrivers
 - GraphLCD graphics library - libglcdgraphics
 - GraphLCD tools (crtfont, convpic, showpic, showtext)
 - GraphLCD media files (pictures and splash screens in GLCD format, fonts)

written by Andreas Regel (andreas.regel AT powarman.de)

based on the graphlcd plugin for the Video Disc Recorder
  written by                   Carsten Siebholz (c.siebholz AT t-online.de)
  from 0.0.8 on maintained by  Andreas Regel (andreas.regel AT powarman.de)
    gu140x32f driver by        Andreas Brachold (vdr04 AT deltab.de)
    gu256x64-372 driver by     Andreas Weinberger (vdr AT smue.org)
    gu256x64-3xx0 driver by    Ralf Mueller (ralf AT bj-ig.de)
    image driver by            Andreas Regel (andreas.regel AT powarman.de)
    ks0108 driver by           Andreas Weinberger (vdr AT smue.org)
    sed1330 driver by          Roland Praml (praml.roland AT t-online.de)
                               Heinz Gressenberger (heinz.gressenberger AT stmk.gv.at)
    sed1520 driver by          Andreas Weinberger (vdr AT smue.org)
    framebuffer driver by      Stephan Skrodzki (skrodzki AT stevekist.de)
    serdisplib driver by       Wolfgang Astleitner (mrwastl AT users.sourceforge.net)
    t6963c driver by           Andreas Regel (andreas.regel AT powarman.de)
    noritake800 drider by      Lucian Muresan (lucianm AT users.sourceforge.net)


Project's homepage: http://graphlcd.berlios.de/


See the file COPYING for license information.


Description
-----------
The GraphLCD base is a project to support graphical LC displays. It is
mainly used by the graphlcd plugin for the Video Disc Recorder to
display its information.

The GraphLCD driver library supports the following LCD
controllers/modules:
 - Hitachi HD61830
 - Toshiba T6963
 - Samsung KS0108
 - Epson SED1520 (only tested with DIP122 lcd module)
 - Epson SED1330
 - Noritake GU140X32F-7806
 - Noritake GU256X64-372
 - Noritake GU256X64-3XX0 (serial or parallel)
 - Noritake 800 series displays
 - all controllers supported by serdisplib (http://serdisplib.sourceforge.net)

Other controllers might be supported in the future.

Additionally the GraphLCD driver library includes some special drivers:
 - framebuffer, for devices that are connected to the VGA connector
 - image, for writing image sequences in PBM (Portable Bit Map) format that
   show the plugin's output.


Installation and Configuration:
-------------------------------
1. Unpack the tarball to an arbitrary directory.

  tar xzf graphlcd-base-0.1.2.tgz

2. Configure if you want FreeType2 support by commenting/uncommenting
   HAVE_FREETYPE2 in Make.config.

3. Compile the libraries and tools.

  make all (from the package's directory)

4. Install the libraries and tools.

  make install (from the package's directory)

5. Edit the configuration file graphlcd.conf to fit your needs.

6. Copy it to the GraphLCD's default configuration search path (/etc).

  cp graphlcd.conf /etc


Notes about FreeType2:
----------------------
If the HAVE_FREETYPE2 variable is defined, then the new method
cFont::LoadFT2(..) from the graphics library will load a FreeType2-supported
font (only TTFs tested so far) and render it into the raster font structure
that cFont uses normally. The method is also defined if no FT2 support is
compiled in, only then it will return false afer logging an error message in
the system log, telling that graphlcd-base has been compiled without FT2
support. This way, applications using this library (vdrplugin-graphlcd, or the
wrapper LCDproc "meta-driver" glcdprocdriver for example, can treat this case
and have a fallback to the glcdraphics-native raster font if FT2 is not
supported, or the TTF font could not be loaded for some reason.

